
# Introduction 
The 3G Auctions were the great success of applied economics, The Biggest Auction Ever, the sale of the British 3G Telecom Licences generated over £22bn in revenue for the British Treasury over 2% of British GDP at the time. At the heart of this was the Simultaneous Multiple Round Ascending Auction (SMRA), an auction format designed to generate revenue for the Treasury whilst allocating spectrum to those firms that would most effectively develop advanced telecoms for the general public. 

Whilst not representative of the general success of auction theory, mechanism design or one of a number of potential discipline names, it's the most high profile example of the use of synthetic markets for a particular end. These markets are synthetic because they are deliberately constructed by policy makers for a specific purpose - in (perhaps superficial!) contrast to the reified market signified when one generically refers to ‘the market’ 

This story is the metamorphosis of an economist from a dismal scientist to a heralded social engineer. Although there are various minor-disciplines, such as mechanism design, game theory, market design and more, i’ll wrap them all into the label of applied information economics. 

Whilst applied information economics purports to solve social problems in line with market-principles they are ultimately isomorphic to more intuitively understood concepts of command economy. In the command economy planners decide how much and what should be produced and who should get it - this was the basis of the Socialist Calculation Controversy of the early 20th century. The crux of the controversy being: can a command economy efficiently allocate resources without prices. This question was indispensably epistemic as it got to the heart of what the presence of market prices, and the lack thereof, meant for the efficient allocation of resources. The institutional history of information economics 
